- [Instructor] The Java API for JSON binding,
known as JSON-B,
is an API for converting Java objects to and from JSON.
It helps Java developers working with JSON
in their applications to be quickly able to convert back
and forth from JSON to POJOs.
JSON-B is a very focused, yet powerful API
that simplifies working with JSON for Java EE developers.
The API allows Java objects to be easily serialized
into a JSON string.
Additionally, the API allows JSON strings
to be deserialized into a Java object.
It performs these conversions by mapping JSON properties
to Java fields and then converting them based
upon the data type.
Within the API is a set of annotations
that allow developers to customize the mappings
to meet the requirements.
So when we think about serialization and deserialization,
this is what it looks like.
We have a Java object with fields on the left
and a JSON object with properties on the right.
You will notice the correlation between the field
and property names,
which is how JSON-B does the translation.
If subtle differences exist
or a different JSON representation is preferred,
JSON-B provides a set of annotations
to customize the mappings.
JSON-B supports mapping for a wide array of types
found in Java.
Its coverage includes basic primitive types,
custom POJOs, dates, classes,
collections, arrays, and enumerations.
Within JSON-B, we are able to customize a large number
of the mapping configurations to support special situations.
Primarily using an annotation-based approach,
we are able to change property names, orders,
and account for the absence of a property.
Additionally, the annotations allow us
to provide mapping strategies for fields,
such as numerics or dates
that may have slightly different formats in JSON.
We'll see JSON-B in action in the upcoming lessons
and get hands-on experience working with the API.